Let's talk a bit about gynie index approach so far we have been talking about how to construct a decision
tree with the help of entropy and information gain.
There are lots of lots of other approaches such as this genie index approach.
OK this is the so-called cart algorithm which stands for classification and a regression tree algorithm
and this algorithm uses GINI index to decide how to make displayed for a given decision tree.
So using Gini Index approach is a bit better than calculating the information again and entropy because
when dealing with entropy we have to calculate logarithmic functions which are computationally expensive.
So that's why we prefer Gini Index approach because it is a bit faster algorithm.
OK so if you may recall when calculating the Shannon entropy we have to deal with this formula the probability
times the logarithm of the probability and calculating the logarithm function is quite expensive.
That's why we pay for this genie index approach.
But what extremely important that the two algorithms are approximately the same they are calculating
the same values Gini Index approach does not rely heavily on entropy and it is the huge advantage for
this approach because calculating the logarithm functions are computationally expensive.
OK so we just have to deal with this formula.
The genie index is ECOs to want a minus the sum of the probabilities.
We just have to sum up the probabilities for every single class.
So N is the number of our good classes for credit scoring D and easy close to because the output value
can be 0 or 1.
The client has the false data or the client is able to pay back the loan when dealing with the IRS data
set and is ECOs Destry.
I always said Tozer.
Iris versicolor and Iris virginica as far as the output losses are concerned.
OK so after calculating the G x GINI index values we just have to use this formula in order to calculate
the E values and we split the feature.
We the law was GINI index.
So we search for the lowest eveil you and that's the feature we have displayed.
So it is very very similar to the information again approach.
Here we are not going to deal with Shannon entropy but we are going to deal with this formula when calculating
the genie index.
OK.
So for example we are able to calculate the genie index for a given target voluble as far as playing
golf is concerned.
Nine times the output value is yes four five times it is no.
So the djinni index is going to be one minus the probability of yes square and minus the probability
of no square.
This is what we have been discussing this is the formula 1 minus the sum of the X sobeit Square.
So here we have two output classes yes or no.
The probability of Yes is nine.
Divide by 14 which is 0.60 4.
We have to square it minus the probability of no which is 5 divided by 14.
0.30 6 squared.
And the final result is zero dot 46.
OK so this is how we calculate the index for a given target voluble.
But of course we have to calculate these eveil you in order to know what features to split.
So if we have a gender that can be male or female and for example we are dealing with the credit scoring
dataset.
So the target variable is 0 or 1 whether the client has the false data or the client is able to pay
back the loan.
As far as males are concerned there are three yes values in the target variable and two no values as
far as females are concerned.
There are four yes values and zero no values.
First of all we have to calculate the genie index as far as the target of triable is concerned which
is the default.
So one minus the probability of yes which is seven because we have a sweep loss for yeses and we have
to divide it by all the answers.
So we have seven yes values to no values seven plus two is nine.
That's why we have to divide it by nine.
So this is the probability that the default value is yes we have to square it minus the probability
that default value is no it is to divide by 9.
And of course we have to square it because this is the formula we are using.
All is ECOs to 0.30 for Dan who we have to calculate the genie indices as far as the splits are concerned.
So first of all we have to calculate the genie indices for the given braunches.
So the gender feature can be splitted into a male branch and the female branch the genie index for the
male branch is the one minus the probability of yes in that given branch stree divide by 5 3 because
we have three yes values as far as male is concerned.
And there is three plasty values as far as all the values are concerned for male 2:03.
So that's why we divide by 5 squared minus the probability of no.
For males it is to divide by all the values for male which is to divide by five square.
This is the genie index for male.
Then we have to calculate the same for the other branch.
So that gender can be split into male and female.
So the genie index of female is 1 minus the probability of yes.
For females for divide by four square and minus the probability of no.
For a female 0 divided by four square it is equal to zero.
This is how we calculate the genie in this says and we have multiplied by the probabilities.
So that's why the final evil is going to be equal to the G.T. which is the genie index of default.
This is what we have already calculated so it is approximately 0.30 for.
So 0.30 for minors the probability of male was the probability of male.
It is three plus two.
So that's why five divided by nine.
Because there are nine samples no matter that the person is male or female.
2:03 plus four plus 0 is equal to 9.
So 5 divided by 9 is the probability that a given person is male.
Times the genie index of male which is 0.30 for again minus the probability that the given person is
female.
It is for the white by nine times the genie index of gender female.
OK which is zero.
That's why the final e value is 0.15.
Ok sorry for that.
I have managed to miscalculate almost every single values.
So as far as the genie index of the male is concerned it is equal to zero or 48 as far as the genie
index of female is concerned it is zero.
And as far as the evil you is concerned it is the G where T is the target of triable it is 0.30 for
OK minus 5 divided by non-meat is the probability that the gender is male times.
The genie index of male minors the probability of female times the genie index of female.
So the final result for the evil you is 0 0 7.
Sorry for the inconvenience.
We just have to calculate this event for all the features and we split the feature away.
No worse GINI index.
So this is how we can calculate the index and we just have to select the lowest one in order to decide
what feature to split.
OK and by the way the implementation is quite easy because we just have to define the criteria and is
not going to be the entropy but it is going to be the genie index approach.
So if we save it and run it.
I guess that the accuracy is going to be approximately the same as you can see.
This is the cross validated result.
Approximately 95 percent accuracy.
This is the accuracy as far as splitting the dataset into training data set and test data set.
So this is how we can use decision tree classifiers with the help of entropy and with the help of the
Genie index approach we prefer the genie index approach because it is a faster algorithm.
There's no need to calculate the logarithm of the probability when dealing with the Shannon entropy.
This is why the genie index approach is preferred.
Thanks for watching.